---
layout: post
title: English
---

English writing is a big headache for me because of my poor knowledge of grammar usage. The middle school studying attitude of mine should be condemned. I was seldom pay attention to the saying of English teacher and copied most all of my English homework from others. After three years of this 'good' way of learning English, I knew nothing about English grammar, nothing at all. I did not know what is verb or pronoun, or how to place article before noun. Thanks to Chinese way of education, by doing lots of exam papers I had remembered, not understand, enough rules of English grammar. Mark of my English was pretty good in the college entrance exam, but I still know nothing about the grammar. Thank you god, after all of these years, I finally realise the importance of grammar and written English. I need to spend more time on learning of it.

It is interesting that in China more and more people treat English proficiency as a sign of well educated. May be these people should know that, in Britain where English was born, after the invasion of Normandy, speaking French and Latin was a sign of coming from upper class, English was only used by the poor. In the 2017 Tech Summit of our company, a young man asks Jack a question in English, though his accent is kind of terrible but perhaps it's a good way to impress the audience. Anyway, not matter what his goal is, it seems that most audience does not like this way of showing off, especially in such a formal occasion. Then came the next question raised by a lady in English again. After several seconds of English uttering from the lady, the audience starts to unrest. Maybe she realises her improper behaviour then ends her English lecture by pointing out it is not polite to speak English in a group of Chinese audience which also implies the improper action of former young gentlemen, what a smart move. What makes a person distinguishes from the majority is not how much h he knows, it is his humble attitude towards knowledge and willingness to keep an open heart makes him special.
