---
layout: post
title: My Career (Part One)
---
<div style="text-align: justify">It is a soft, quite summer night. I'm still finding the need to stick to my writing exercise. This night could be a good occasion for me to write something since my wife is also on her business trip. For a man who is approaching his thirties, stay up late is a tough job. But I will try to keep my eyes opened before I finished this blog. This is my 6th year of be an employee of IT company. It is not a long time, but I have already witnessed a lot of stuff, enough stuff. In order to organise the thoughts about these stuff, I need to calm down, then think and write about it. <br/><br/>

In 2012, I graduated from the University of York, and went back to China on September 26. One year living and studying experience in Britain helped me to think about myself more. It helped me to slow down my peace and sort out of my mind about what's going to do in the following years. Perhaps it was the last time of mine being able to escape from social life. Getting a job, working all day long and getting paid are not what I'm looking forward to. As a student, I did not work hard, I always off the real business, such as being a good student and listening to the saying of teachers. For my 5 years of studying in Nottingham and York, I had done a lot of thing that was totally irrelevant with my degree. I signed up a programming training course on my freshmen year and got some programmer certificates though my under graduate was political science. I joined the Christian studying group while I was pursing to be a member of Communist Party membership. I had no idea what I was up to, all these behaviour or decision were made solely based on a vague idea, which was called acting differently. If everyone is studying hard for their degree, I would not do that. If everyone is working an internship or a part-time job, I would regard it as meaningless by using the excuse of 'choosing the most valuable thing to do'. I was so good at comfortable with myself of doing nothing. Perhaps in the deep down of my heart I was afraid of losing, especially when you have tried so hard and the result still be negative to you. I was also so comfortable with my limited knowledge in some business and academic fields. In high school, I read books about management, investing and marketing which made me think myself capable of doing real business which of course was not the truth. Reading could be potentially damage to one's recognition of the real world if he is not having a critical mind. Knowledge of book has its conditions and limitations. We do not learn the hard coded rules in the book, we learn the way of organising ideas behind these rules. I haven't catch this point until I happened to read the book *Black Swan* two years ago. <br/><br/>

After my flight landed in Shanghai International Airport, I had realised that my college life was putting to an end. Once again, my parents did show up in the airport which was a disappointment that I used to. My uncle and cousin picked my up in the airport which was better than took a bus to go home. After my returning to hometown, I still did not quite in the mood of getting a job. Home could be dangerous because you may lose your motivation of being alone to fight against the world. Most of my post-graduate classmates were doing their job hunting in Beijing or other big cities, I was sitting in front of PC and playing MMOG. My mind was dominated by my old habit which was doing nothing and being afraid of facing reality. The reality that I could not get a job even I had got a master degree. Life may had a plan for you or it did not, but in that time I would call myself a lucky dog. My father's elder brother knew an old uncle in local government whose son-in-law was the general manager of a big IT company. When my family got this older uncle's phone number and I sent my basic self introduction to him in text, then I had got the email and phone number of his son-in-law. Sadly, there was no internship headcount left according to the replied email. Then, I had made one of the most important decision during my whole life time. I made a phone call to the GM and asked him about the internship headcount. Though I still did not get a positive answer, I may impressed hime to some extend. After several days waiting, I received an email from him and I was told that there could be an internship headcount available in the QA team. After two weeks of rotting in front of PC, it was better to get out of the chair and head to my new future. Next day I got a phone call from the director of QA team and he asked me several questions about my career plan, then he gave me the date to sign the contract. I was delighted and felt lucky to have the chance to joint in a big IT company in Beijing only after two weeks of my back to China. I packed my belongs in two days and prepared for my new adventure. At the same time, most of my post graduate friends were still doing their job hunting and facing significant amount of declination. It looked like I was the man who took a fast step, but I did not realise that it is not important when did you start, but it is important to figure out the reason why you did you set off in the first place and be strong even when life was constantly tough on you. Once again, I was lucky and had escaped from the real challenge that I ought to face.
</div>


